## Programming fundamental concepts

Syntax and concepts
value: 🖐️ used
identifier: 🖐️ used
variable: 🖐️ used
constant: 🙋 explained
scalar: 👂 heard
literal: 👂 heard
expression: 🖐️ used
heap: 🖐️ used
function: 🎓 known
procedure: 🎓 known
method: 🎓 known
class: 🎓 known
prototype: 👂 heard
event:🖐️ used
type: 🖐️ used
primitive types: 🖐️ used
reference types:👂 heard
flag: 🔬 researched
lexical scope:👂 heard
code block: 🎓 known
conditions: 🙋 explained
loops: 📢 talked
assignment: 🖐️ used
regular expression: 🖐️ used
interface: 👂 heard
contract: 👂 heard
module: 👂 heard
call stack: 👂 heard
Functions
signature: 👂 heard
argument: 🙋 explained
parameter: 🚀 constructed
pure function: 🎓 known
lambda expression: 👂 heard
side effects: 📢 talked
closure:
partial application: 👂 heard
curry: 🎓 known
higher order: 🙋 explained
recursion
callback:👂 heard
listener
compose
pipe: 🎓 known
memoize
wrapper
functor
monad
monoid: 🎓 known
generator:🖐️ used
coroutine:👂 heard
Data structures
array: 🚀 constructed
structure: 🙋 explained
record: 🙋 explained
enum: 🙋 explained
instance:👂 heard
object: 🙋 explained
class: 🔬 researched
collection: 🔬 researched
set: 📢 talked
hash table: 🎓 known
linked list: 🙋 explained
doubly list: 🙋 explained
unrolled list: 🖐️ used
circular list: 🖐️ used
queue: 🔬 researched
stack: 📢 talked
deque: 👂 heard
tree: 👂 heard
graph:👂 heard
iterator: 🚀 constructed
mutable state: 👂 heard
immutable state:👂 heard
serialization: 👂 heard
string parsing
Process & style
compiler: 🚀 constructed
transpiler: 🖐️ used
linter: 🖐️ used
polyfill: 🖐️ used
debugger: 🔬 researched
garbage collection: 🔬 researched
refactoring: 🎓 known
code review: 📢 talked
antipatterns:
paradigm: 🎓 known
algorithm: 🔬 researched
magic numbers: 🎓 known
hardcode: 🙋 explained
complexity: 🙋 explained
decomposition: 🖐️ used
spaghetti: 👂 heard
silver bullet:
not invented here:
dead code: 👂 heard
unreachable code: 📢 talked
duplicate code: 📢 talked
exception: 🚀 constructed
return early: 🎓 known
unittest: 👂 heard
git: 🔬 researched
github: 🔬 researched